docs: add new containers-config(5) man page (#817)
containers/container-libs: common/docs/containers-config.5.md

% containers-config 5

# NAME

> containers-config - File tree layout for loading various container engine config

Reviewer: Non-blocking: consider something like
```suggestion
containers-config - Rules for loading container engine config[uration] files
```

“various … config” is a bit ungrammatical.

## FreeBSD

System defaults:

- `/usr/local/share/containers/<name>.conf`
- `/usr/local/share/containers/<name>.conf.d/`
- `/usr/local/share/containers/<name>.rootful.conf.d/` (only when UID == 0)
- `/usr/local/share/containers/<name>.rootless.conf.d/` (only when UID > 0)
- `/usr/local/share/containers/<name>.rootless.conf.d/<UID>/` (only when UID > 0)

Admin overrides:

- `/usr/local/etc/containers/<name>.conf`
- `/usr/local/etc/containers/<name>.conf.d/`
- `/usr/local/etc/containers/<name>.rootful.conf.d/` (only when UID == 0)
- `/usr/local/etc/containers/<name>.rootless.conf.d/` (only when UID > 0)
- `/usr/local/etc/containers/<name>.rootless.conf.d/<UID>/` (only when UID > 0)

User overrides:

- `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/containers/<name>.conf` or if `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME` is unset then `$HOME/.config/containers/<name>.conf`
- `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/containers/<name>.conf.d/` or if `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME` is unset then `$HOME/.config/containers/<name>.conf.d/`

## Windows

There is no location for system defaults.

Admin overrides:

- `%ProgramData%\containers\<name>.conf`

> - `%ProgramData%\containers\<name>.conf.d\`

Reviewer 2: Technically the code also searches in .rootful.conf.d and .rootless.conf.d on Windows, right?

I think we should keep this undocumented, but I still wanted to point this out during review, because it might be interesting to someone with more knowledge of the implications.

Author: I think we likely should fix that in the code, practically there is no such things as an uid on windows. On windows os.Getuid() returns -1 which currently in parse.go it uses the rootful path (uid > 0)

I guess if windows is hard coded to rootful then it might be best to just not support it at all? Or at least not document it?

Reviewer 2: Not documenting is a sane thing to do imho. Removing support for rootful and rootless would be cleaner for sure, but I don't think it needs to be part of this PR. This one should focus just on man-page.

User overrides:

- `%APPDATA%\containers\<name>.conf`
- `%APPDATA%\containers\<name>.conf.d\`

> # Load order

Reviewer: Non-blocking: consider placing this section before the lists. Otherwise the user might need to scroll over a few pages, including the rarely-relevant FreeBSD / Windows sections, to understand how this fits together.

Reviewer: I left this, I couldn’t think of a good phrasing.

The search locations are split into two file categories, the main files and the drop-in directories.

> Only one main file will be loaded in the order of "User override", if it the file does not exist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only one main file will be loaded in the order of "User override", if the file does not exist
```

> Only one main file will be loaded in the order of "User override", if it the file does not exists

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only one main file will be loaded in the order of "User override", if the file does not exist
```

> then load the "Admin override", if that also does not exists then load the "System default"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
then load the "Admin override", if that also does not exist then load the "System default"
```

> location, if that also does not exists no main file is loaded which is valid too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
location, if that also does not exist no main file is loaded which is valid too.
```

> After the main file drop in directories will be loaded, thus the files have higher precedence than

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the main file, drop-in directories are loaded, thus the files have higher precedence than
```

Reviewer: I’ll defer to native speakers but I think the comma should be there if this violates SVOMPT.

> the main file. Files within the directory must be suffixed with `.conf`, otherwise they get ignored.

Reviewer: “higher precedence” is, sort of, an internal implementation detail / a definition specific to the current man page.

I think what users _really_ want to hear is “the drop-in files override / update settings in the main file”.

All drop-in files will be sorted in the lexicographic order of the file name, if there are two or more

> drop-in files with the same file name only the one with the highest precedence will be used and thus

Reviewer: This refers to “highest precedence” which is not, strictly speaking, defined / documented earlier. (Apart from saying that drop-ins have higher precedence than main files, which is a _different_ kind of precedence.)

(Saying something like “ordered from highest to lowest precedence” at the beginning of the “search locations” section might be valuable: it would simplify the “if the file does not exist” verbosity a few paragraphs above, _and_ it would make the lists easier to understand when reading in the usual order.)

replaces the prior one.

## Example 1

> 

Reviewer: Something like “The following files are read in this order, with later files overriding settings in earlier files”?

- ~~`/usr/share/containers/containers.conf`~~ (overridden by `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/containers/containers.conf` and thus not read)
- `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/containers/containers.conf`
- `/usr/share/containers/containers.conf.d/00-vendor.conf`
- ~~`/etc/containers/containers.conf.d/50-myconf.conf`~~ (overridden by `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/containers/containers.conf.d/50-myconf.conf` and thus not read)
- `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/containers/containers.conf.d/50-myconf.conf`
- `/usr/share/containers/containers.conf.d/99-conf.conf`

> ## Example 2

Reviewer: Non-blocking: I’m not sure we need _both_ examples, don’t they basically say the same thing? Also using a pretty different _form_ of the two examples is a bit surprising.

I’m mildly in favor of example 2, with the “empty file to silence a built-in default” technique as a useful demonstration.

Reviewer: I have left both, the first one is quicker to follow for users who understand the concept already.

# DESCRIPTION

This document describes the loading order of the **[containers.conf](containers.conf.5.md)**,
**[storage.conf](../../storage/docs/containers-storage.conf.5.md)** and

> **[registries.conf](../../image/docs/containers-registries.conf.5.md)**.

Author: all these link changes are part of the "Add a standard EXAMPLES section", is that right? I assume they should be in different one.

Reviewer: I messed something up, I had a separate commit for the removal of links.
